Goal Selection Criteria: How do we mathematically determine which desires become goals? Is it purely strength-based, or do we need to consider:
Resource availability
Goal compatibility/conflicts
Temporal constraints
Emotional state influence

--------

when an agent or any consious entity (human AI/AGI) has a goal or desire they form the goal and desire
 purely by field like influence, (attractor dynamics in narative and cognitive spaces).
 we dont care about this to much we are designing for emergent behaviour down the line.
 By interaction with the agent they will form goals by what they like 
 (if talk to them about cats they will like cats) the desire to have a cat may or may not form 
 continue talking about cats that desire becomes a goal - everything else follows 


 right now we focus on this emotional module we build later will handle cognitive reframing ! 
cognitive reframing is what you are eluding to just now with 

"Resource availability
Goal compatibility/conflicts
Temporal constraints
Emotional state influence" 


--------


Goal Push Mechanism: When you say "push the agent to resolve the goal" - is this:
A direct desire strength multiplier?
A new "goal-directed desire" that gets created?
A modification of existing desires?
Conflict Resolution: When multiple goals compete, do we use:
Nash equilibrium for optimal strategy?
Priority queuing with dynamic reordering?
Multi-objective optimization?


----


goals are weighted by the desires the goals where formed from the more they are reinforced.
the higher the desire is to complete the goal and the more it drives agent behaviour 

nash for competing goals
and multi objective opt for multiple goals at single time 
pruning for goals that are not getting reinforced 
lyapunov for stability 




Goal Formation Threshold: Is it simply when a desire strength exceeds a certain value, or is there a more sophisticated "attraction" mechanism?

it is when desire reaches maximum value and is maintained at that value over time (threshhold(think human behaviour)) 


Goal Push Mechanism: When a goal is active, how exactly does it "push" the agent? Does it:
Increase the strength of the original desire?
Create new "goal-directed" desires?
Modify other related desires?

what i mean by influence or "push" is think of it as a buff to traits and desire like in WoW or something.
having a goal born of these traits and desires buffs the traits and desire that made it 
this will directly influence the agents behaviour its output


Goal Resolution: How do we determine when a goal is "complete"? Is it:
User feedback ("I got a cat!")

this is where it gets compplicated !! 
most of the time i asume these goals will be learning based .. 
in all my other systems i have built the agent tends to make learning based goals 
"i want to understand yuriko better" "i would like to know where i fit into x" 
"my desire vector is at xxx i want it to be xxx"  BUT who knows this coudl be different this time .. 
we have to remember that LLM is a black box and we will have STM and LTM modules the agent can accsess at will .. 
things will be emergent and "not normal" 



Agent self-assessment?
yep kinda


Time-based decay?
yes goals not be reinforced MUST be pruned else it explodes eats all ram and computer shurtsdown... 
(this has hapend to me to many times)

Multiple Goals: Can multiple goals be active simultaneously, or do we need arbitration?
yes we will have many but smart pruning arbtration and conflict Resolution will solve this issue 

